[Music]
her name is lillian
boyer wait a minute why is she standing
on the wing of an airplane
well from 1921 lillian made a living
doing completely
crazy mid-air stunts on planes she
really knew how to put on a good
show and she became famous all over the
united states
but lillian started her unusual career
completely by accident
she was a regular 21 year old waitress
at a chicago restaurant
that changed when two pilots named elmer
partridge and johnny metzger became
frequent customers there
one day they offered lillian a ride in
their old biplane
a curtis jn4d jenny she agreed
and they headed over to the local
airport
soon lilian was in the air it was the
first flight of her life and she was
incredibly excited
flying didn't scare her at all in fact
with a strong wind blowing in her face
and the noise of the engine ringing in
her ears lillian realized that planes
were her calling
four days later partridge asked her if
she wanted to take another flight
this time lilian decided to do something
bold
when the plane was flying at 65 miles an
hour she got out of her seat
and stood on the wing but even then she
wanted more
so she walked all the way to the edge
the whole time partridge was screaming
at her to sit down
because he thought she was going to jump
she could barely hear his voice because
of the engine noise
but lillian wasn't scared at all she
actually enjoyed it
when the pilot saw what she could do he
introduced her to billy brock
he worked at the chattanooga airport and
was looking for someone who could do
tricks on the wing of a plane
they shook hands and soon got started on
lillian's training
lillian quit her restaurant job and
started training full
for five months she practiced doing
stunts in a barn at chattanooga
she used a model plane which had soft
mattresses placed underneath it for
safety
she did gymnastics with an instructor as
well as running and other sports
and she changed her eating habits soon
she was ready for a real flight
and she proved she was the best lillian
was the first female stunt person to
perform tricks
like hanging from a plane using one hand
or hanging by her knees or
ankles her bravery amazed people and she
quickly became very popular
she and brock started doing air shows at
various fairs and festivals
and she turned into a real star when
they came to town
the crowd always recognized them there
was always a car
waiting for lillian and she had a lot of
passionate fans
lillian was the only woman at the time
who could perform one
very risky stunt she would get out of
the cockpit holding a thin wire
which had a mouthpiece at the end of it
she would do a few tricks on the edge of
the wing
and then hang under the plane holding on
by only her teeth
the spectators couldn't see the wire
from hundreds of feet below
so it looked both pretty shocking and
amazing
the crowd would erupt into screams when
lillian performed this trip
then brock would lower a special ladder
and she'd grab it and go back to her
seat
but there were also accidents these
reminded lillian and brock that they
were engaged in a very dangerous
business
and that they had to be as careful as
possible during one of their shows in
they plan to do an unusual trick brock
was going to do a loop
while lillian was standing on the
biplane's top wings
the idea was for her to slip her feet
into some straps
and the centrifugal force of the loop
would help lillian keep her balance
but during the actual trip something
went wrong
and the scrap broke lillian smashed
really hard into the wing
but she still managed to climb back into
her seat she was injured
but she kept on doing her shows
when she was performing in trenton new
jersey in october 1925
lillian had another three accidents
during some parachute jumps
on the first day of the show the wind
took her away from her landing spot
and she fell onto the seat of a ferris
wheel some of the audience thought it
was just another crazy stunt
but it was actually a very dangerous
situation luckily the ferris wheel
operator realized that lillian was in
trouble
and stopped the ride the second time
she couldn't control her chute and
struck the roof of the grandstand
she hit it hard and got stuck there and
people had to look for a ladder to help
lillian down
on the third day of her show lillian's
parachute almost landed on a tent
so she pulled on the shrouds as hard as
she could to change direction
but this made the parachute turn inside
out and lillian fell
about 50 feet straight into the ground
she suffered a lot of injuries and had
to be hospitalized
but she was treated very well she was in
the hospital for two months
and all of her bills were paid by an
anonymous person
lillian thought it was probably the
president of the fair
he liked her in fact since she was a
star a lot of men
admired her but she didn't risk her life
for money or fame
lillian did all this for herself brock
got almost all the money from their
performances
and that was her decision they usually
perform for two or three days straight
or
even a whole week they were paid one
thousand to twelve hundred dollars for
one performance
but lillian only got one hundred dollars
as she said herself
that was a decent amount of money and it
was enough for her
so brock ran the business maintained the
plane and hired mechanics and crew
but their show was called lillian
boyer's flying circus
and there was a reason for that brock
was in love with lillian
constantly working together made the two
of them close it didn't work out though
lillian told him that there wouldn't be
anything between them
but he still cared about her and lillian
really appreciated him for that
she trusted her pilot with her life and
she admired his skill
in fact she said he was the best pilot
she ever knew
before every flight he double checked
all the systems
wires and mechanisms he would tell her
where to go
and lillian would listen to him and it
was brock who came up with most of the
tricks
there was total trust between them and
they worked as one
after brock passed away lillian kept
doing stunts with another pilot
but she couldn't trust him like she had
trusted brock one of her signature
tricks was switching from a car to a
plane
but she never did it with the new pilot
during her stunt career between 1921 and
lillian performed 352 shows in 41 u.s
states in canada
she performed 143 changes from a car to
a plane
and made 37 parachute jumps but in 1928
low altitude flying was banned and so
dangerous stunts performed on the wings
of airplanes became history
almost half a century later lillian once
again became a celebrity
at the san diego aerospace museum an
entire section of it was devoted to her
incredible achievements
lillian was the guest of honor at all
the events there
one evening she was given one of the
most pleasant surprises of her life
it was a flight on a boeing pt-17
biplane
this time now in her 80s lillian didn't
walk on the wings or perform dangerous
stunts
but when she landed she admitted that
she really wanted to
the pilot had told her not to get out of
the cockpit
plus she couldn't trust him as much as
she had trusted brock
[Music]